gaza's Hamas run Health Ministry says
the number of people killed in an
Israeli air strike near the southern
city of KH Unice has risen to at least
71 nearly 300 more are said to have been
injured the attack happened in the
masawi area of hunis the Israeli
military has designated this area a safe
Zone urging Palestinians to seek shelter
there it says the strike was on a Hamas
a fenced Hamas area and described most
people there as militants these pictures
are of the moment of the blast an
eyewitness has described the scene to
the BBC saying it was like an earthquake
doctors at a nearby Field Hospital are
reported to be struggling to cope with
the scores of casualties well here's the
BBC's Nick beak with more on the strike
this is an area where Palestinians had
been told by the Israeli authorities
that they would be safe it was a
designated so-called safe Zone but
clearly what's happened is there's been
a huge air strike here what's clear is a
lot of people have been killed and that
figure could rise sharply it would seem
you talked about some of the video we
saw some of the video there and it
really shows a very graphic and
distressing scene this huge plume of
smoke an indication of just how big the
blast was this air strike was the damage
it did you've got families digging a
amid the rubble you've got other
relatives being consoled blooded
casualties being loaded onto stretchers
and in the nearby Q8 field Hospital
completely packed chaos there some
people some people being treated on the
floor it appears some children are
injured as well no word yet from the
Israeli Defense Forces officially but
interestingly the Israeli uh military
radio station is citing defense sources
three defense sources saying that this
was a very significant strike now we
don't know if that's significant in
terms of the loss of life which clearly
a lot of people have been killed here or
whether it was very significant in that
as has been the case in previous strikes
the Israeli military have targeted Hamas
individuals and we've seen lots of
people die as a result of that and we do
know there has been Fierce fighting in
this area in recent days just talk us
through what's been
happening you Han Unice is right in the
south of the Gaza Strip where the
fighting has continued as well as in
Gaza City which is gaza's biggest city
and other parts of the strip as well
with people being reported killed every
day so this is the reality I mean
there's one District of Gaza City itself
where the authorities said that they
recovered 60 bodies after a very intense
48 Hours of military operations by the
Israeli government of course the
government here says that the mission to
destroy Hamas continues and won't stop
until it's done all the while these
peace talks are going on but no
indication that they made a huge amount
of progress this week in the
conversations in in Doha also there were
some talks uh in Egypt as well and this
is The Bleak reality this is the horror
what we of what's happening and I think
the images we're seeing today speak for
themselves Israel's Army Radio has said
the target of the strike was the Hamas
military Chief Muhammad Dave well Hamas
has denied this let's bring in our Gaza
correspondent rushi abulu who is in
Istanbul rushi what are you
hearing yeah still no confirmation
denial from Hamas about this they said
what happened is a a war crime committed
by Israel targeting innocent civilian in
the so-call safe Zone what happened we
have been talking to many sources in the
area there was the the main strike that
hit a building which house some
uh you know uh Food Distribution Center
Then followed by about four or five
secondary air strikes around around the
the area one of them was targeting also
a a civil defense uh car that rushed to
uh rescue the the people so it's very
complicated sort of area because the
area where uh west of canun it's called
alasi it's the area that designated as a
safe Zone with about 700,000 people they
live there very crowded area that why we
have seen this huge number of casualties
about 71 confirmed killed and over 200
people were injured doctors are
struggling in three medical centers uh
to save people lives the number of
patient and the number of injured
arrived very quickly to the hospital is
huge and and and doctors are trying to
cope with the situation about Muhammad
Dev he's the command
military commander of Hamas he's been
targeted four or five times by Israel he
was seriously injured back in 2014 uh
War there is no confirmation yet from
Hamas about him but this is the highest
ranking uh name or military Chief and
he's the one who followed the 7th of
October attack by Hamas he made this
speech and uh he was addressing the the
people afterwards so it's quite
significant if he's the Target it is
very significant the area is significant
because it's the safe Zone and the
number of people killed is a huge in the
city and we were just showing a a
picture of Muhammad Dave back in 1996 so
a very old image but just talk us
through what we know about
him he was you know a mastermind behind
most of the Hamas attacks for the last
25 30 years Muhammad de is is is a well
known they call him
the the chief commander of the military
Wing he was until recently during this
war when the Israeli intelligence
released fresh picture of
him everybody thought that he was half a
person like he used to have a lot of
rumors about him that he's he lost his
hand in one of the he lost his eye he
lost his his wife and his brother and
Israel tried to kill him many many times
I remember for the last 20 years
covering
this conflict I have covered at least
four or five times when Muhammad de was
was a Target they tried to kill him
after the Hamas kidnapped gilad Shalit
in 2006 they tried to kill him in the
2009 war and they killed his wife and
his family members in 2014 in a house in
Gaza City and he was badly injured so
Israel has been hunting for him for a
very long time and if they good him I
think it's it's significant is he would
be the highest ranking person killed in
this world and Ry while we have you
we're just going to be showing some live
pictures now in K Unice there you go um
that is near to the blast sites near to
uh the hospital there you can see that
there are a number of people walking
around on the streets um we're hearing
since the start of the war
38,000 people according to the Hamas uh
Health Ministry have been killed what
are eyewitnesses saying to you uh you've
been speaking to some people on the
ground the um uh the Israeli military
saying that the strike was on a fenced
Hamas area uh others saying that this
was actually a safe zone for
Palestinians are you getting an a
clearer idea of where this strike took
place yeah just to explain the alasi
area is like a small strip of land in
the eastern western part ofun is near
the beach it's agricultural area with a
lot of farms and uh back
in October and November and December
Israel said this is the area is called
the safe Zone they were uh you know
ordering people from RAF from kanun from
all around the Gaza Strip to go there
because it's safe the area is like twice
the size of hro airport and it's very
densely populated area with thousands of
tins are there and many of you know
small makeshift houses were set up in
the in the area the area is really
crowded and according to Witnesses what
happened is like earthquake is about
three air strikes using you know fighter
jits in the area and about three four
secondary strikes maybe used drone or
quad cter drones in the area so it's
quite
big strike in a a significant area where
very crowded place near a market near
you know a food distribution center many
civilian casualties in the area we have
seen image of people digging in their
bare hand trying to get their uh you
know loved ones from under the the rubel
in the hospital there's too many
civilians we we have seen footage of wom
children are among those killed in the
area well as I said Hamas officially
deny Hamas officially said this is a war
crime and Israel is responsible for
killing innocent civilian in a safe Zone
Witnesses are reporting as I said
many civilian casualties are among the
people who were killed in the area very
conflicting report about the number very
conflicting report about the situation
for the injured very serious injuries
are still in the hospital but the
overall number is still 71 killed and
over 100 200 people
injured okay uh rushy uh there are Gaza
correspondent with the latest well um we
are just getting some more information
in uh the Israeli uh Israeli official
has confirmed Hamas military Chief was
the target of the strike this is
according to an Israeli official the IDF
struck Muhammad Dave and Rafa Salamar
ahead of the Khan Unice Brigade who were
some of the masterminds they say behind
the 7th of October Massacre now they
they're saying that this strike was
carried out uh within a fenced area
where according to its information were
there and only Hamas terrorists no
civilians as I say this is coming from
the IDF and we'll bring you some more on
that as soon as we get it with our
correspondents in the Middle East